Welcome to the session
on speech technology.
We call this Let's Talk.
I am touched that you guys all came out,
and ladies, came out here at 9 o'clock
in the morning for us.
You must really want to be here.
My name is Kim Silverman,
and I'm the manager of the spoken
language technologies at Apple.
Today we're going to talk
about speech synthesis.
We're going to talk
about speech recognition.
I'll give you overviews of
those features in the Mac,
and give you some guidelines about how
to use them well in your applications,
and then we'll talk through
the APIs in a bit more detail
to show you some real code.
So let's start with speech synthesis.
Speech synthesis has been
on the Mac since the Mac was
first launched in 1984,
and particularly starting
around about the time of OS 7,
it started getting better
and better with each release.
We currently have quite a range
of voices that give you different
trade-offs of footprint and technology.
Speech synthesis is the core
technology in VoiceOver,
which is Apple's screen reader.
And today,
I'm delighted to be able to announce
that we have new speech synthesis.
You might have heard this in the
Steve Jobs keynote on Monday morning,
and I'd like to introduce our new voice,
whose name is Alex.
And rather than me telling you about it,
it seemed to me that I should
let Alex introduce himself.
So could we shift to the demo machine,
please?
Let me just plug in the audio,
just a moment.
I'm going to plug in the audio,
this might click.
Okay, we are in.
Ready?
My name is Alex, and I am the new speech
synthesis voice in Mac OS X.
I'm not yet finished,
so you will probably notice some places
where I still need more polishing.
Apple has worked on a different
approach to speech synthesis technology
in order to be able to produce me.
People say that I sound more
natural and easier to understand
than Apple's prior voices.
Like some of those voices,
I'm based on recordings of a real human.
But unlike those voices,
I'm based on much longer recordings
and have a very different
approach to the signal processing.
Another improvement is that
I can speak very quickly,
and yet people can still
understand my speech.
Here is a sample.
Make sure to be there Monday, July 5th,
about 8.30 in the morning.
Try to be on time and bring the
most recent results with you.
And now, to tell you more about me,
let me introduce a man so deep,
he is almost unfathomable.
A man so quick, he is even fast asleep.
A man who is a legend in his own mind.
Gandalf.
Er, sorry.
I mean, Kim Silverman.
So Alex is being a bit of
a smart alec this morning.
I mentioned that Alex has been
designed to be the core technology
and work well in VoiceOver.
For those of you who
are unfamiliar with it,
VoiceOver is a feature of Mac OS X for
people with low vision or no vision.
And it uses speech synthesis to
feed back to a person who can't
see the screen information about
everything going on on the screen,
what the front most window is,
where the mouse is, and so on.
Let's turn it on.
Welcome to Macintosh.
VoiceOver is running.
System Preferences,
Universal Access Window, Back button.
So I'll navigate around a few of these
controls and you will hear how it sounds.
Forward, Dimmed button, Show All button,
Seeing, Selected tab 1 of 4,
Hearing tab 2 of 4.
Now, people who use these things all day,
every day, want the speech usually
to be faster than this.
So let's take the volume, the rate up.
You can do this with keystroke
commands that I'm using here.
Faster, faster, faster, faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster, faster, faster,
faster.
Let's try that.
Seeing, Selected tab 1 of 4,
Hearing tab 2 of 4, Keyboard tab 3 of 4.
But they like it even faster than that,
so let's go further.
Faster, faster, faster, faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster.
Turn VoiceOver on or off, Command F5.
VoiceOver on, Selected radio off,
Radio button 2 of 2.
go with voiceover.
Thank you.
Now, while I'm in the System Preferences,
I'd like to show you one of the features
that we've used to incorporate speech
synthesis into the user interface.
And the reason I'm showing you
this is to inspire you with one
use of speech synthesis you could
use in your own applications.
If I go to the Speech Preferences
and the Text-to-Speech tab,
There's a control here that's labeled
"announce when alerts are displayed."
We call this "talking alerts."
Here's what this is about.
Suppose I'm working on the computer,
and then an alert comes up on my screen
that wants some kind of response from me,
but I'm not looking.
My attention is out the window,
or I'm daydreaming,
talking to somebody else,
and I miss the alert and
miss responding to it.
In that case, if I don't respond after
a certain amount of time,
the computer could read out the alert
to me in order to get my attention back.
So that's what this does.
In the alert options, you can set a delay
until it starts speaking.
By default, it's about 20 seconds.
I'll put it back to being
zero now and set it to,
say, one of these phrases.
So suppose I modify this document.
And then I go to close
it without saving it.
Here's how it sounds.
Alert.
Do you want to save changes to
this document before closing?
We've been getting a lot
of feedback about this.
One guy said to me,
"I was crawling around on my
hands and knees underneath my
desk rearranging some cables,
and suddenly this voice unexpectedly
came out of my computer saying,
'The internet is being
disconnected.' I turned around and,
oh, sure enough, my foot had kicked out
the ethernet cable."
And so, the principle here is,
if there are things going on
in your application that you'd
like your user to respond to,
but your user may not be attending,
then you can add speech as a way of
getting the user's attention back.
Now, another announcement we have today
is that we have modified the API to
allow a plug-in architecture.
What that's all about is that there are
other companies like yourselves out there
who have speech synthesis technology that
has different characteristics from ours.
Different voices, different genders,
different trade-offs of
quality and footprint,
or, most relevantly to you guys,
different languages.
Thank you.
So it's now possible,
oh let's just close this,
for them to port their speech
synthesis to the speech manager,
and their voices show up under the list
of voices just like our own voices do.
One of those companies is capstral.com.
You may have heard of them.
So I have here a couple
of voices from Capstral.
One of them is Katrin,
their German voice.
Dies ist die Capstra-Katrin-Stimme.
So let's have her introduce
herself over here.
Hello,
I am Katrin from the Capstall house.
I am always well occupied and
therefore have not held a lecture on
an interesting conference for a while.
That is why I was also deeply
moved when I was asked to
talk here in front of Apple.
And I have to say, on a Mac I really feel
like home again and again.
For those of you that
don't understand German,
she just said some very complimentary
things about you and about us.
So this means if you've got
an application that you want
to sell into a German market,
German speaking market,
and you use speech synthesis,
here's a way that you can go.
If you're selling into
the English market,
there are also some interesting things
that you can do with these voices.
For example,
if you pass them English text,
then they will speak that text
as a native speaker of that other
language would try to speak it.
And that can sometimes sound interesting.
We think this is very interesting.
We have another voice over here, Miguel,
who speaks Spanish.
Miguel, who speaks Spanish.
So let's get him to
introduce himself as well.
Hola, me llamo Miguel.
Soy la voz del español de
las Américas de Kevstral.
Encantado de conoceros.
Es mi primera vez en
una conferencia WWDC.
Verdaderamente me
fascina el mundo del Mac.
So that's speech synthesis.
Thanks.
Can we go back to the main slides,
please?
So, you use speech synthesis just by
passing it text and having it speak it.
And the speech synthesizer will
analyze the text and make its
best guess regarding how you
would like that text spoken.
And usually the guess is pretty good,
but you can do even better.
The problem is,
the way we say something depends on why
we're saying it and on how it relates
to what the listener already knows.
So really, to get it right,
the speech synthesis engine
has got to be a mind reader.
And we're not going to
release that one in Leopard.
But the solution, the workaround,
is that your application knows a
lot more about what it's saying
and why it's saying it than the
speech synthesizer could ever guess.
And so you can use that domain-specific
knowledge that's inherent in your
application to improve the speech.
For example,
one thing you can do is filter the texts.
Take, for example,
an application that let
people deal with stocks.
It could substitute for each of the
ticker symbols the actual company name,
such as, rather than saying AAPL,
it could say Apple Computer.
You can customize the pronunciations.
You can customize the intonation.
Let's talk about those
in a bit more detail.
In the case of pronunciations,
there are some words that a
synthesizer may not pronounce
the way you know they ought to be
pronounced in your application.
Some names are a particular
problem like that.
Some technical expressions.
Some words that are specific
to your application.
Well,
what developers have done in the past has
been what we call "funny spelling", which
is they retype a word with different
spelling in order to try to get it
to be pronounced the way they want.
We don't recommend this because
pronunciation of non-standard
spellings might change as we make
different releases of the synthesizer.
And besides, there's only a limit to how
far you can go with a spelling
because you're still working
through the letter-to-sound rules.
The better way is to use part of the
API that's called "phoneme input".
That lets you embed in the input to
the synthesizer the exact specification
of the phonemes that you want it
to use when pronouncing something.
Let me give you an example.
This is a real example.
The name "beardno" was
mispronounced by our synthesizer
up until about a week ago.
Here's how it was pronounced.
It's saying something
like "by I are now". So,
I... substitute in our dictionary
this particular phoneme string,
and now it says:
"My name is Professor Beardno".
"Beardno". "My name is
Professor Beardno". This phoneme
input is very easy to learn.
There are about 40-something,
maybe 42 symbols,
and it's all documented in
the speech documentation.
This is your insurance
against the future.
Use this method to customize
the pronunciations.
Now, to customize the intonation,
the problem that we're addressing
here is once we have intelligibly
synthesized the words,
we haven't done enough.
You know the expression,
it's not what he said,
it's the way that he said it.
The way that you say something
can change its meaning.
Take, for example, the sentence,
John only introduced Mary to Bill.
That means he didn't introduce
Mary to anybody else.
But if I say,
John only introduced Mary to Bill,
that means he didn't actually
encourage her to have a
business relationship with him.
Now the problem here again is
that automatically determining
the correct intonation is
difficult in the general case.
You've got to have ESP.
But your application knows why
it's saying what it's saying,
and it knows what the listener has
already done in its prior interaction.
And so you can do better.
And one principle that you can apply
is what I call let the user catch up.
That is,
add pauses at the boundaries between
major information chunks in your texts.
One easy way to do that is just liberally
sprinkle punctuation around and break up
larger sentences into smaller sentences.
When we developers and technical folk
write our texts in our applications,
we tend to write it in
the style of written text.
Written text tends to
have long sentences.
Human speech tends to
have short sentences.
So break them up.
If there are any pauses that
the synthesizer inserts that
you'd like to be even longer,
you can lengthen them by
embedding the command in
yellow up there into your text.
That inserts silence.
In this case, it adds another 500
milliseconds of silence.
Let me illustrate the issue here.
Suppose you have an airline
reservation application that reads back
information about a booking to a user.
You might populate a text sentence by
filling out fields from a database.
The values in yellow would
be pulled out of a database,
put into this frame sentence,
and then the text sent to
the speech synthesizer.
If you do it with this text as written,
it sounds like this.
Your first flight is with
Alaska Airlines Flight 2762D,
departing from San Jose on Monday,
May 24th at 6:10 p.m., landing
in San Francisco at 7:10 p.m.
Thanks for choosing Apple Travel.
So you can get all the words,
but it kind of barrels
through it pretty quickly.
If the user were trying to jot
down the information there,
they might have trouble
keeping up with it.
So in this version, I've added commas,
some periods.
I've separated out that last
line into a separate paragraph,
which adds a bit more of a
pause and changes its pitch.
And I've added an extra silence of
300 milliseconds before the last
phrase of the first paragraph.
So that now sounds like this.
Your first flight is with
Alaska Airlines Flight 2762,
departing from San Jose on Monday,
May 24th at 6:10 p.m., landing
in San Francisco at 7:10 p.m.
Thanks for choosing Apple Travel.
That gives people a bit more of a
chance to catch up and maybe jot down
some notes while they're listening.
The point is, Customize.
Okay,
so let's talk about speech recognition.
There's a speech recognizer
built into every Mac.
It's part of OS X.
It has a well-documented API that you'll
hear about a little later this morning.
But there are a few characteristics
of the recognizer that I'd
like you to know about now.
One is that it's speaker independent.
Your users don't have to spend
hours training it to their voices.
They can just walk up to it and use it.
The second is that it's driven
by a finite state grammar.
What that means is you load
up the recognizer with a
representation of everything
that you want it to listen for,
and then tell it to start listening,
and it tells you when it hears a
string that's part of that grammar.
That means it works really
well for command and control,
for spoken interactive dialogues,
but it doesn't do unrestricted dictation.
For that, there are some third-party
solutions available,
such as iListen from Mac Speech.
The third thing is that it works
with a Far Field Microphone.
That means for the general case,
you don't need to tether yourself
to the machine with a head-mounted,
close-talking,
noise-cancelling microphone.
You don't have to go out
and buy extra hardware.
You don't have to have extra
cables dangling across your desk.
Now because it's working
with a Far Field Microphone,
that means it hears all the
background noises in the room.
The reverberation, the echoes,
the computer fans, the air conditioning,
the traffic going past,
all the stuff that we as
people are not aware of,
it's hearing.
How many of you have ever
recorded a meeting on a cassette
deck or a dictaphone and then
played the tape back later?
Who's done that?
It's amazing isn't it?
You listen to it and think how on
Earth did I understand anything?
Well our speech recognizer
has to deal with that as well,
so we have layers of algorithms
to dynamically track,
adapt to and compensate
for the room acoustics.
There are, however,
limits to how far it can compensate and
we're going to be demoing it in here
where the distance between here and
the back wall is causing this enormous
echo which is just on the limit,
actually a little bit past the
limit of what we've designed it for.
So I am going to be using a head mounted
microphone demoing it today and there's
a principle there for your users,
give them some kind of guidance
to know am I going to be using
it in a place that's too noisy,
in which case there are a lot of third
party head mounted microphones out there.
Now because it's adapting, I'm
That means that if you use it in one
place and then go to a different place,
a different acoustic environment,
it will still think it's in the old
place and it may not work so well.
For example, you're using it at home,
on the kitchen table,
at night after the kids go to bed,
and then you close up your MacBook,
take it to the office next
morning and open it up,
it still thinks it's at home,
and so it takes a while before
it can adapt to your voice in
the new acoustic environment.
And you might think, oh,
the recogniser's not working so well.
Well, we have a user interface that
speeds up that adaptation,
and I'd like to start off
by showing that to you now.
So could we go back to the demo machine,
please?
If you go to the speech
recognition preferences,
then there's a button there called
"Calibrate". If I click on that,
I get a dialogue that lets me set the
volume sensitivity of the microphone.
And I should set that so that the peaks
of my speech are just coming up to the
end of the green or bumping into the red.
Then there are a list
of commands on the left.
After you have set the volume correctly,
then you read down these commands,
and each command, if it is recognized,
will flash.
If a command doesn't flash,
you say it a second time.
If it doesn't get it the second time,
just go on to the next command.
When you get to the bottom of the list,
if it missed any of them,
go back up and go through
the list a second time.
So let's give it a try.
What time is it?
Quit this application?
Open a document?
Show me what to say?
Make this page speakable.
Move page down.
Hide this application.
Switch to Finder.
Done.
We just set a couple of
hundred parameters in there.
So let's put it through its paces a
little bit before I talk any more,
and so you can see what happens.
[Transcript missing]
What time is it?
It's 9:24.
What day is it?
It's Friday, August 11th.
Quit from System Preferences?
Quitting System Preferences.
Get my mail?
Open my browser.
Get Apple stock price.
Get Apple.
Let's see how we're doing.
Ah, 63.
Hey, the stock's a bit low, guys.
Could you write lots of cool applications
for us and get our stock price up?
Oh, look at that.
Astronomy Picture of the Day.
Oh, this is cool.
Look at that shooting star.
Zoom into this.
Cool.
Zoom back out.
Suppose I'd like to mail
this web page to a friend.
Well, I could go through the
steps of copying the URL,
finding his name in the address book,
launching mail, or I could just say,
Mail this to Kevin Aiitken.
One moment please.
Created a message to
Kevin Aiitken with this URL.
So it goes into the address book,
finds his address, goes to mail,
creates a new message,
goes back to the browser,
copies out the URL,
goes back to the message,
pastes it all in,
and puts it up in front of my face,
ready for me to either
type some explanatory text,
or just say,
Send this message.
And that goes out as real mail.
Now at this stage, Kevin is very patient,
but he's probably sick of getting all
these stupid demo messages from me.
So I want to telephone him and let him
know that yet another one's on its way,
but I can't remember his phone number.
So I say, phone for Kevin Aiitken.
Opening text edit.
Oh.
Phone for Kevin Aiitken.
And were a dress book set up properly,
it would do it.
Why is that not working?
Every time I do this, it works.
Then I demo it.
I have to tell you that this
is my personal PowerBook here,
and some of the components here are parts
of software that we've been working on
as we download new versions of Leopard,
and sometimes I get
interactions like this.
Oh well,
it would have displayed it on the screen.
Try it on your own machines, and it will,
there.
Quit from Address Book.
Quitting Address Book.
There are some applications
that call our API directly.
Let me just show you one of them.
[Transcript missing]
Nye G A2F6 I don't like it when a
computer this powerful takes six and
a half seconds thinking about what
it's going to do to counter my moves.
This lets me do something that my
17-year-old son won't let me do
when I'm playing chess with him.
This lets me say,
"Take back move." Take back move.
Now one of the things
that you can do with,
uh, well let me, well I've shown you a
whole bunch of things,
let me explain a little bit
about what you've just seen.
We have a speech recognition
engine that has an API.
Applications such as your
own can call that API,
and already many of you do,
and use it to add speech control
to your own user interfaces.
But it seemed to us that
It's not very good if
our users have to go out,
track down, and purchase third-party
software before they can have any
experience at all with speech.
So we also make some simple applications
that sit in the user interface
and do some things with speech.
One of those is called Speakable Items.
Open the Speech Preferences.
You turn speakable items on in the
speech recognition preferences.
That's up here.
When you turn on speakable items,
We create a folder in your home directory
called the Speakable Items folder.
Open the Speakable Items folder.
So here it is, Home, Library, Speech,
Speakable Items.
Anything that's in that folder can
be launched by double-clicking it.
And it's exactly the same-- sorry,
it can be launched by saying it.
And that's exactly the
same as double-clicking it.
We pre-populate that folder
with a number of items that
kind of get you up and going,
and some of the things I've
been saying are in there.
For example, what time is it,
and zoom into this.
Anything that can be
launched by double-clicking,
you can now launch by speech,
by putting it into that folder.
The real power is that you can
add things to that folder to
customize it to work well with
the things that you do most often.
Let me give you an example.
Suppose that I have a standard
workflow that I always go through,
which requires me to always
create a standard set of
folders with standard names.
Make a new folder.
Hang on.
Make new folder.
There we go.
Open this folder.
Make a new folder.
Call this data to be analyzed.
Make a new folder?
Make a new folder.
Call this work in progress?
Make a new folder?
Make a new folder.
Call this "Finished Publications".
Close this window.
Move this to the trash.
Move this to trash.
Empty the trash.
So it's pretty easy to
customize it like that.
One of the things that you can
do to customize it like that
is you can add a spoken command
to send a keyboard shortcut.
And that means that you guys
can very easily add speech
commands to your applications
if you have keyboard shortcuts.
Let me give you an illustration of that.
Get my mail.
So suppose I want to be able to
mark a message as being unread.
Now I know it's possible,
and I know it's in one of these menus.
Let's try Edit, no, View Menu, Message,
Mark.
There it is.
Down in this submenu, Mark as Unread.
It's Shift, Command, U.
These kinds of keyboard shortcuts
are sometimes hard to memorize.
So I can attach a spoken
command to it by saying,
define a keyboard command.
And it asks me,
"What's the keyboard shortcut
I want to send?" Well,
I type Shift-Command-U.
And then it asks me what
is it that I want to say?
So I'll say, "Mark this as unread."
That's easier for me to memorize
than the keyboard shortcut.
So now let's try it.
I'll zoom in over here.
Zoom into this.
Mark this as unread.
There we go.
Zoom back out.
Can I go back to the slides please?
So when and where should you use speech?
Well,
a lot of us play out recorded sounds,
alerts, beeps.
Back in the 1960s,
beep was about all that
a computer could do.
And somehow we're stuck
in that mentality.
But it seems to me we're
in the 21st century now,
when your computer makes a sound
to get the user's attention.
You know why you're doing it,
so why not tell the computer?
Use speech.
And if you think about the mouse,
the point-and-click interface,
it's like pointing at
things and grunting.
"Ugh!
Ugh!
Ugh!"
There's a lot you can do with it,
but I like to think that we've
gone beyond just grunting.
So how can you go beyond beep
and grunt in your applications?
Well,
one thing you can do is notifications.
Talking alerts was an example of that.
Another one would be that in iChat,
you can set it up to speak to you
when somebody wants to chat with you.
Mail allows you to set
up rules that could say,
for example,
you've got new mail from your boss.
You might want to hear that rather than
discovering it two hours later when you
next get to looking at your mail program.
So if you have things that you
want to notify your people about,
tell them.
Gosh.
Proofreading.
You know, we all have spellcheckers,
but there are limits to how
far a spellchecker can go.
Many of our typing
errors make real words,
such as form instead of from.
Spellcheckers don't find those.
Grammar checkers don't do much better.
They're not very satisfying.
But when you hear your
prose read out to you,
you get proof.
You don't get the grammar
mistakes immediately.
You also get a much better feel
of the overall flow of the text.
Games are a good
opportunity to use speech.
If you have non mission
critical interactions that
you want your user to have,
speech can be a good
alternative modality for that.
For example,
there was a few years ago a car racing
game where you could radio ahead
to your pit stop crew to tell them
what they needed to be ready to do
to your car when you next came around,
such as changing the front right
tire and topping up the oil.
So speech was good for that.
Education-- the teachers keep telling
us we love speech synthesis because when
our kids interact with an application,
if it talks, it engages them much more.
Like a talking math application will
engage a kid for 20 to 25 minutes,
whereas without the speech,
it only engages them
for about five minutes.
And while kids are hearing
things spoken back,
it's reinforcing their literacy,
whether they know it or not.
Web browsing,
you saw me surfing the web by voice.
There's a lot more that could
be done in that direction.
Speech is good for form filling.
If you have an application where
there are fixed alternatives
that could go into a field.
For example,
a finance application where people can
write checks and have a list of people
that they normally write checks to.
So you could say,
make out a check to Macy's.
In general,
if you have any user interaction
scenario where people's eyes are
busy and their hands are busy,
speech provides another modality
for you to allow them to interact.
And it's kind of cool, you know.
And finally, Delegation.
Normally we interact with a computer
by specifying the steps we want
the computer to take to achieve
a goal that we have in mind.
A better user interaction model is
to delegate the goal to the computer
and have it do what it's good at.
Have it figure out the steps
along the way to get there.
If, along the way,
it needs more information to
refine how it gets to that goal,
it can come back and ask you.
Sending a web page to someone
was an example of delegation.
If you're going to be successful
with speech recognition in your app,
then here's a few things you should do.
First of all, educate your users.
Let them know what the user
interface elements are,
like the speech commands window,
which shows people what they can say.
Explain about calibrating,
the way I just explained it to you.
And when you go back to your hotel
rooms tonight to try out the speech,
what's the first thing
you're going to do?
Give them examples of how to speak.
For example,
ship an AIFF file recording of you
saying something to your application
so they hear the style of speech,
so they know that they
shouldn't pause between words.
They shouldn't shout at the computer.
They shouldn't mumble.
They shouldn't over-articulate.
If you want some guidelines,
look at the helpful tips in the
speech preferences for what we say.
Make users aware of background noises.
Often people say to me,
the speech recognition
wasn't working for me.
And when I look into why, well,
they have the microphone
listening all the time.
And they're using speech recognition.
Well, somebody comes into the room,
tells them a joke.
The computer thinks it
hears the other person,
responds to it.
They both start laughing.
There's overlapped speech going on.
And then they say,
the thing doesn't work.
Make people aware of background noises.
And in the context of doing that,
help your listeners to know
when they should be considering
using a head-mounted microphone.
Such as, if you have an application to
be used in a warehouse where
there's a lot of machinery around,
you might want your users to wear a
head-mounted microphone in that case.
There are two listening modes:
Push-to-Talk and Continuous Listening.
Push-to-Talk is the
mode that I was using,
where it's not listening
unless you press a hotkey.
That addresses the following problem:
that speech recognisers are great
at recognising what they're supposed
to recognise but terrible at knowing
when you're not talking to them.
And so in situations like this,
where I'm doing a demo,
99% of the words that I say are
not directed to the computer and
so I have it in push to talk mode.
You can tell it to listen
continuously and if you do,
then it will require a key word
before each spoken command.
You can even turn that key word
off and then the microphone
is listening all the time.
Very dangerous.
If you're in your office by yourself,
that will work quite well until the phone
rings and you have a conversation on the
telephone and then it's dangerous again.
So educate your listeners
about the costs as well as the
benefits of continuous listening.
And give them some guidance
about non-native speakers.
We have trained the speech
recognizer on 750 speakers of
varieties of North American English.
Including a few non-native
speakers in there.
Because we're doing statistical
modeling of the acoustics of
speech in Hidden Markov models.
That means there's some
forgiveness in the recognizer.
So as you can hear, I'm Australian.
In my group,
Jia is a native Chinese speaker.
Matthias is a native
speaker of Swiss German.
Jerome's a native French speaker.
Devang is a native
Hindi and Gujarati speaker.
Heavens, Kevin Aitken's from Oregon.
And it understands all of us.
So there is some
forgiveness in the models.
Nevertheless,
let your users know that the
further their English is from
North American adult English,
the more chance there is that
the recogniser might trip up.
So, we've talked a lot about speech
synthesis and speech recognition.
I'd like to hand over to Kevin Aiitken,
one of our senior engineers,
who will tell you about how to put
this into your own applications.
Kevin?
Good morning.
As Kim said, I'm Kevin Aiitken.
So, what I'm going to do is dive right
into some of the programming details.
So, that's why I'm here.
First, I'm going to start talking
about speech recognition,
and then I'm going to talk about
the APIs for speech synthesis.
So let's start with
accessing speech recognition.
So there are four main ways that you can
access our speech recognition engine.
And I go through each one of those,
giving you some ideas of
what the API looks like.
So if you're writing with AppleScript,
we have two commands.
The first one is the listen for command.
It's great for a simple Q&A.
You give it a list of
commands listened for.
It starts recognizing
once it's heard something,
or it's optional timeout,
stops listening,
and then you can take the
result and do something with it.
If you need a little more flexibility,
you can use the listen
continuously for command.
Unlike the other command,
it continues to listen even
after it's heard something.
That way, you can update the commands
depending on what you want to do.
And then once you're finished listening,
you can just call stop listening.
So now Kim gave you an
overview of Speakable Items,
demoed what it looks like to the user,
and then he also delved into
the Speakable Items folder.
And so he showed you what an item is.
If you have a Scriptable application,
you can use Apple script files.
That's really great.
Otherwise you can use keyboard command
files to map a keyboard shortcut
to a particular spoken command.
And you can even create many little
applications for your spoken commands
that can communicate with your
application in whatever way you want.
The simplest way to get started
is just to embed those items
inside your application's bundle.
You just put them in a folder
inside the resources directory,
set a key in your Info.plist,
and when Speakable Items is running,
it finds that in your application
and puts those commands in a list.
Or if you want to give the user
just a little more flexibility
to rename and delete your items,
you can actually install those
into the user speak volume
folder that Kim showed you.
If you're running a Cocoa application,
we have a great class
called NSSpeechRecognizr.
It's designed to be for fast,
easy implementation
of speech recognition.
It has a number of ways that
you can change what it's
listening for as it's running.
So, I'm going to give you a little bit of
code as an example of what it looks like.
But let's say you're
running a game program.
It's a maze.
The user can move in four directions
to move their little token from
one side of the maze to the other.
And so you've set it up so they
use the keypad or the arrow keys.
And then you go to a talk
like this and you go,
wow, you know, I can have the user say
one of those directions.
So, what might the code look like?
So we're going to start off by
instantiating a speech recognizer.
And then we're going to set the
delegate to an object that you want
to receive the message of when one
of those commands is recognized.
Then we're going to tell the
recognizer what to listen for.
In this case,
it's just an array of strings.
Each one of those strings is one of
the directions that you specified.
And then finally,
we're going to start listening.
So now the user is using your maze,
having fun, making way to the end.
And so they say one of those commands.
And so your delegate message method,
delegate object, is going to get the did
recognize command message along
with a string that it heard.
And then what you can do is you can
just easily compare that to one of the
known directions and move accordingly.
So that's a really simple
example of a fictitious program.
What I'd like to do now is show
you a real cool application that
a developer has used this API in
order to enhance with speech.
So what I'd like to do
is bring up Will Shipley,
CEO of Delicious Monster,
to give us a demo of that.
Thank you.
Hello.
Thanks for coming out at 9:00.
This is probably the only time
you'll ever see me before noon,
so live it up.
We just bought some books and
CDs to test this to show you guys
that this is not a canned demo.
If you guys want these,
see me after the session,
because we don't really want
to take them back with us.
Let's see.
I need to change-- can I have
demo whatever it is thingy?
I've always wanted to say that.
That's so fun.
The power, I'm going to be like,
could you switch it to
the demo in the next room?
Can you go back?
I must use this only for good.
Um... So I was instructed to, uh...
Yeah, can I go back to demo again?
I was instructed to calibrate
this before I use it.
I had no idea about
this calibration stuff,
and I put the voice
stuff in two years ago,
so that tells you something.
I don't know what.
But it's probably something
really interesting.
So I'm going to calibrate now,
which is really exciting for all of you.
Actually, I think this is kind of
magic every time I do it.
So there we go.
What time is it?
Quit this application.
Open a document.
Show me what to say.
Make this page speakable.
Move page down.
Hide this application.
Switch to Finder.
That was pretty neat.
That was 100%. I mean, I don't know.
I just got up here, I set it up.
I'm just like,
I find that completely magic.
Okay, so here's the point where I'm
going to do something which
you're never supposed to do,
which is I have not tested these.
But I was told to show
the app a little bit.
I don't want to turn this
into an ad for my app,
because you guys really don't want to be
sitting here paying to watch me do ads.
But the basic idea of the app is this
gives you a physical catalog or a virtual
catalog of all your physical stuff.
So it's sort of like iTunes
for your physical items.
It doesn't do your electronic items,
and it doesn't try to actually
have the content of the items.
It's just like a card
catalog into those items.
So you can catalog the books that are
on your shelf and the CDs that are
on your shelf and your video games
and your blah-biddy-blah-biddy-blue.
The cool thing about it is these
apps have existed for 30 years.
It's all really we all wanted to do
with computers is catalog our crap.
The cool thing about it is this
is really easy to get it in.
So what I do is it scans the barcode.
So I'm going to show you the
first part of voice feedback,
assuming this machine is mic'd up.
Hopefully the audio is on this too.
So I'm going to pop up
the iSight camera on this,
point it at this barcode.
And please, please, please, please.
Now I think today we've all learned a
valuable lesson about licensing software.
Stealing is wrong, and I want you to take
that home with you.
It's not something you want to do.
So what I'm going to do,
and this is actually really teaching me a
lot about how I should ship the program.
What I'm going to do is go ahead and
I'm going to delete a bunch of items
so that I'm under the 25 item limit.
But you saw how fast that would
have worked if it had worked.
So here we are.
This is the barcode.
Hold it up to the eyesight.
Scans it in.
I can go on, do other items.
Look, I failed.
Is this on the net?
It's really slow.
I see.
Wait.
Me and my gang.
All right, so there's that.
Did that.
Mm-hmm.
Yes, we're not going to go over that now.
This is why you never do demos on
items that you haven't actually
checked in the lighting conditions
that you're going to do them in there.
Game of Shadows, Barry Bonds, BLSU,
and the steroid scandal that
rocked professional sports.
All right, so that's scanning items in.
And you can see I'm using the feedback
there to read out the item title,
which seems kind of
neat and kind of magic.
And the big point behind that was
I did want to make it seem magic.
I wanted for the user to
understand what they did,
because just the beep,
and then it would take a
little while for it to load in.
And they weren't really
sure what had happened.
And they'd usually moved
on to another item,
because it's not threaded,
as you may have seen.
I was actually able to read in other
barcodes while it was looking up.
And so you get behind.
And so this isn't just
like just adding flash.
It actually adds something useful,
which is if you're sitting
there and you go beep,
beep, beep, beep, and then it fails,
it says look up fail.
And so you'd hear, oh, Lost Lake,
and then look up fail.
And you go, oh, Lost Lake.
Oh.
This one didn't work.
I better type it in by hand.
So we're not just talking about flash.
We're talking about actual functionality
that's enabled by speech when
someone's not looking at the screen.
And similarly, you can actually look
up things by title here.
And I'll show this.
"Was I supposed to do
something before this?
No, not.
So I'm going to hold down
escape and I'm going to just
say the name of one of these.
Mario Party 5." Mario Party 5.
"Grand Theft Auto:
Vice City." Grand Theft Auto: Vice City.
"So you can see it's just
selecting the item that I say.
Now that's really cool because
we actually tested this,
and you can actually be,
and they don't guarantee this,
so you know, this is in Apple words.
You can actually be like 30
feet away from a microphone in
one of these machines and say
fairly clearly in a relatively
quiet environment what you want,
and it'll get it.
So you could actually have
this continuous listen and
be in your library and say,
'Oh, did I scan in Mario Party?'
And the thing will go,
'Mario Party?' And you're like, 'Oh,
yeah, I got that one.' And so you can
just read off your bookshelf,
and it actually works.
It's really, really cool.
Something I just discovered
when I was doing all this,
when they were showing it to me, whoops,
there's the source code for it.
Well,
I'm going to show you the source code
so it's not going to be too long.
It's not that bad.
Did anybody notice the
crasher in the code earlier?
No one?
He was showing Cocoa code.
Anyone see the crasher he did?
What was it?
He didn't nil terminate his array
when he said array with objects.
So one of the things I discovered is, oh,
Speakable Items on/off.
That's supposed to turn it on.
So now it's on, which it was before,
but I'm pretending it wasn't.
So yesterday, he's going through this.
I just got out of this session.
That's why this is so random.
Yesterday,
we were going through this with Kim,
and he's showing me the Speakable Items.
Where's the other thing?
He was showing me this,
and as you can see here,
let me see if I can do this little trick.
Isn't that neat?
All these things that are
just coming from my app for
free because it's a Cocoa app.
Now, I didn't program these,
and it really freaked me out because,
I mean, you can see things like open
page on Amazon's with this title,
which I didn't add.
I mean, I added it to my app, you know,
as a menu item, but I didn't add that
as a speakable item.
But it turns out in Cocoa,
you just get your buttons,
the titles or the labels actually
get used as speakable items for free.
Which is really amazing.
So our apps are actually already more
speakable or unspeakable in some cases.
Then we thought, so for example,
I'll actually do this and I'll say, "Hey,
uh, my info." My info.
And it switches to my info tab.
Details.
Similar.
I forgot what that command was now,
sorry.
I was going to do the show info,
blah blah blah blah blah blah blah.
Yes.
View other formats on Amazon.com.
I probably said dot wrong.
Oh, I'm looking at the wrong one.
Yeah.
What did I do with it?
Speech Commands Window.
Right, right,
that Speech Commands Window.
Oh, oh, oh, yeah,
I got it from a different place.
That's why we didn't see that.
Toggle EyeSight Monitor.
Open page on Amazon on
books with this author.
So that's pretty cool.
Now the big story here is I've always
been a skeptic on speech technologies
and with apologies to the people
who actually wrote all this stuff.
I've always been a huge skeptic
and I think a lot of people are.
I think a lot of people think, you know,
well, that's not really what I'm
going to do with it when you
see demos where you're like,
move up a pixel, move up another pixel,
move up, oh, damn it,
I'm just going to use the mouse,
you know?
And I think the story is we need to
start thinking of this as a way to do
hands-free input when your hands are
doing something else and we need to
think about doing output feedback when
your eyes are doing something else.
And the example Kim gave was an
awesome one where the computer says,
hey, I just came unplugged.
How great would it be if you
had a server machine and when
you unplugged that server,
it said, hey, hey, I'm unplugged,
you know, you unplug the network,
I'm not, you know,
I'm not serving web pages anymore.
Hey, hey, and it just sat there.
Hey, hey, hey.
That'd be good feedback, right?
I could really use that.
I'd save a lot of money.
And I see my time is up.
So, yeah, so in conclusion,
I think this is really great technology.
I hope we get a lot more APIs in Cocoa.
Please, please, please, please, please.
And I hope you all use it.
Thanks.
Thanks a lot.
Okay, slides.
Slides once again.
Alright.
Thanks a lot, Wil, and especially for
debugging our demo code.
That's what we get for not
compiling and writing our demo code.
Okay,
so if you need more functionality than
what we provide with the Cocoa API,
you can use the
Carbon Speech Recognition API.
It gives you full access to
the speech recognition engine,
access to a very powerful way of
defining what it should listen for,
and a little bit of control
over the user interaction.
But because we give you all that power
to define what it's going to listen for.
You need to be careful.
So in the case of chess,
it's easy to just say, oh, well,
that's just a piece followed
by a square followed by the
word two followed by a square.
Well, if you multiply that all out,
you've got over 24,000 spoken commands.
Well, the message here is constrain
your language model and listen
only for what's appropriate.
So that improves accuracy because
we're not listening for all those
invalid commands in the case of chess.
But, you know,
I'll leave a few alternative phrasings in
there just to make it easy on the user.
So a language model, again,
is just a way of telling the recognition
system what it should listen for.
So one way we might define the
language model is we might have
a set of branches for each one
of the piece types under that,
and we have the valid
moves at that moment.
As the user is playing the chess game,
we're going to update this
so it's always correct.
So what we do is we give this to the
speech recognition engine and it searches
through trying to find the best match,
and then once it does,
it's going to make a copy of
that original language model
and hand that back to you,
trimming away everything
that wasn't valid,
just the valid portion.
And then you're going to take that and
then map that onto a particular move.
So as far as just a summary of how
you use speech recognition API,
you're going to create a recognition
system and a recognizer object,
set up your callback routines,
set up the language model,
and begin listening.
And then finally,
as those commands come through,
then you're going to handle
the recognition result.
Let's talk about speech synthesis.
Very similar.
Four main ways to access it.
AppleScript, we have the say command.
Here are a couple of examples.
You can just say a string.
You can say it using a specific voice
if you want perhaps a female voice.
You can even, let's say,
convert some of your news articles
into a podcast by actually
saving it to an AIFF5 that file,
throw it on your iPod.
We also have a Say command line tool.
Similar, you can just say a string,
say it with a particular voice,
and save it off in a file.
One thing Kim loves to do is if you've
got a long compile or something,
you put that command, and then you follow
it by the Say command.
And that way, he can put it off,
move the terminal to the background,
answer some emails from his team,
and then he hears the computer say,
your compile is finished,
or whatever voice it uses.
If you're using Cocoa,
just like with speech recognition,
we have a class for that.
It allows you to do
asynchronous speaking.
You have a number of notifications.
You can do the bouncing
ball across the words.
You can animate a mouth
to speak along with it.
You have access to the voices,
and you can integrate it with the
speech recognizer objects as well.
So here's a little bit of an idea.
Hopefully there won't
be any bugs in this one.
Instantiate the synthesizer,
set the delegate if you want
to get those notifications,
and then you just start
speaking the string.
And if you've signed up for
one of the notifications,
such as the "Did
Finish Speaking" message,
you'll get that,
so you can update your UI or
whatever you want to do.
So we also have a Carbon version
of the speech synthesis API.
That allows you full
access to the synthesizer.
Oops, let's go back.
Direct access to the synthesizer,
so you can set and get properties.
We have more notifications.
And there's a few utility routines
for converting text into phonemes
and support for custom dictionaries,
so you can fine-tune particular words.
So like speech recognition,
it follows a general pattern
of creating a speech channel,
setting a callback routine,
setting any properties you need,
such as rate or pitch,
and then you start speaking,
and then you handle any
of those notifications.
So that's just a summary of the APIs,
a lot more detail in the documentation,
other areas.
So with that, I'm going to let Kim sum up
and finish out the session.
Thanks, Kim.
So, in the last couple of minutes,
To summarize,
you've seen the new speech synthesis,
and you've got some guidelines
about how to use it,
and speech recognition.
Regarding that new speech synthesis,
this is a work in progress.
We have a lot more work
that we want to do on it.
So please, please, please help us out.
Run it.
Listen to things you don't like.
And write bugs and send them to us.
We need your help.
We can't test all of the
texts that you'll be testing.
And in particular,
make sure it works well in the kinds of
strings that are in your applications.
For speech recognition,
We don't think there's a lot of value
in trying to use speech recognition
to replace the mouse completely.
The mouse allows you to point
at and click on an object on
the screen in a single gesture.
The value of speech recognition is for
things that you can't see to point to,
to click on.
If you have items within menus,
within submenus,
within other submenus that
would scroll off the screen,
speech recognition is a
good way to get to those.
Consider at least adding keyboard
shortcuts to all of your buried items
so that you can then ship speakable
items so that people can speak them.
Look at other ways.
You can maybe shift some scripts,
Apple scripts, for speakable items that
control your commands,
or even better, call the API directly.
We have more information.
If you have any questions, don't call me.
I'm terrible at answering email.
Contact John Galenzi,
because he's good at
getting back to people,
and he bugs me.
There are some great examples of
code at developer examples speech.
Download some of those.
Those do compile, and they do run.
and uh... we've documented all the
speech api speech recognition and
speech synthesis we are holding a
lab session from eleven o'clock into
one o'clock today we don't have time
for cook our public question answered
right now but we'll uh... be hanging
around outside this room from the end
of this uh... presentation including
kevin lindsoe kevin could you stand
up please kevin lindsoe was the c_e_o_
founder and inspiration of casterly
dot com and he's here to answer any
questions about his voices how to
get them or the experience of putting
them to the mac so we'll be out the
back thanks a lot thanks for coming